#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
% For adding line numbers.  Remove % comments below when you want them
\usepackage{lineno,setspace}
\linenumbers
\modulolinenumbers[2]
%For reduce white-space around title
\usepackage{titling}
\setlength{\droptitle}{-6em}
\posttitle{\par\end{center}\vspace{0em}}
%Makes headings and captions more compact
\usepackage[small,compact]{titlesec}
\usepackage[small,it]{caption}
%\doublespace
%reduces white space around figures, tables, and algorithms
%\addtolength{\textfloatsep}{-20mm}
%\addtolength{\belowcaptionskip}{-3mm}
%\addtolength{\abovecaptionskip}{-3mm}
%\addtolength{\intextsep}{-3mm}
%allows bold greek letters in LaTex math entered as ERT
\usepackage{bm}
% code for shortcuts for writing out distribution names.  Follows JAGS syntax.
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dbinl}{binomial}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dpois}{Poisson}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dnorm}{normal}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dlnorm}{lognormal}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dgam}{gamma}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dunif}{uniform}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dmultinom}{multinomial}
%\DeclareMathOperator{\dbeta}{beta}
%Creates spiffy headers and footers
%\usepackage{fancyheadings}
%\lhead{NESSF Renewal 2012}
%\chead{}
%\rhead{A.T. Tredennick}
%allows use of urls
\usepackage{url}
%Great package for handling tables and figures in manuscripts.  Uncomment to use.
%\usepackage{endfloat}
%Uncomment for Ecology (ESA) citations, makes citations sep by comma
%\bibpunct{(}{)}{,}{a}{}{;}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
endnotes
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing double
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle empty
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Micro- versus meso-scale population models for ecological forecasting
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Andrew T.
 Tredennick
\begin_inset Formula $^{1,^{*}}$
\end_inset

 and Peter B.
 Adler
\begin_inset Formula $^{1}$
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\size footnotesize
\begin_inset Formula $^{1}$
\end_inset

Department of Wildland Resources and the Ecology Center, Utah State University
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\size footnotesize
\begin_inset Formula $^{*}$
\end_inset

Corresponding Author; Email: atredenn@gmail.com
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent

\series bold
\size small
ABSTRACT: 
\series default
\size default
The basic idea here is to do a head-to-head comparison of complex, individual-ba
sed integral projection models and less complex, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

patch-based
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 models.
 The problem is this: as ecologists we want to forecast the impacts of global
 change, like climate change, at scales relevant to land management decisions
 and policy intervention.
 However, almost all studies of plant population dynamics rely on data at
 the sub 1 meter scale.
 This data is really hard to collect.
 Can we use average plot cover to forecast plant population dynamics just
 as well as when we use complex IPMs? Can 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

averaged-out
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 population models at the plot level adequately capture climate drivers?
 These are the questions we seek to answer here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent

\series bold
\size footnotesize
Keywords: 
\series default
population model, forecasting, integral projection model, etc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
newpage{}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Producing skillfull forecasts at spatial scales relevant to global environmental
 changes that play out at the landscape and regional scale has proven challengin
g for population ecologists.
 The major hurdle is that most population models, at least for plant species,
 are built using data from small, localized plots because parameterizing
 vital rate regressions requires tracking the fates of individuals.
 These models are difficult to scale up from the micro to meso-scales because
 the fitted parameters do not fully represent the spatial variation present
 at spatial scales beyond that at which the data are collected.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recently, Freckelton et al., building on work by Hastings and NAME, have
 proposed density-structured population models that focus on the transition
 of populations among discrete states, rather than the traditional approach
 of modeling the transitions of individuals.
 Such an approach could be extremely valuable because the data needed to
 parameterize density-structured population models is much easier, and less
 costly, to collect (Queenborough et al.
 year).
 For example, using a density-structured approach, one could build a population
 model using a time series of annual plot-based censuses of species percent
 cover.
 However, a major assumption of the density-structured approach is that
 the aggregate dynamics of the population observed at coarse spatial resolution
 faithfully represent, and correspond to, the fates of individual plants.
 In other words, using a density-structured approach requires a leap of
 faith that important covariates (e.g., climate variables) at the level of
 the individual are captured adequately at the population level.
 If we seek to forecast the impacts of climate change on plant populations,
 then clearly this assumption requires testing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Materials and Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Study site and data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our demographic data comes from the Fort Keogh Livestock and Range Research
 Laboratory in eastern Montana's northern mixed prairie near Miles City,
 Montana, USA (46°19'N, 105°48'W).
 The dataset is freely available on 
\shape italic
Ecological Archives
\shape default
 (CITE), and interested readers should refer to the metadata therin for
 a complete description.
 The site is about 800 m above sea level and mean annual precipitation (1878-200
9) is 334 mm, with most annual precipitaion falling from April through September
 (76%).
 The site is grass dominated and, for the purposes of our study, we focus
 on the four most abundant graminoid species: 
\shape italic
Bouteloua gracilis
\shape default
, 
\shape italic
Hesperostipa comata
\shape default
, 
\shape italic
Pascopyrum smithii
\shape default
, and 
\shape italic
Poa secunda
\shape default
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From 1932 to 1945 individual plants were identified and mapped annualy in
 44 1-m
\begin_inset Formula $^{2}$
\end_inset

 quadrats using a pantograph.
 The quadrats were distributed in six pastures, each assigned a grazing
 treatment of light (1.24 ha/animal unit month), moderate (0.92 ha/aum), and
 heavy (0.76 ha/aum) stocking rates (two pastures per treatment).
 In this analysis we account for potential differences among the grazing
 treatments, but do not focus on grazing 
\begin_inset Formula $\times$
\end_inset

 climate interactions.
 The annual maps of the quadrats were digitized and the fates of individual
 plants tracked and extracted using a computer program.
 Daily climate data, which we aggregated into climate variables of interest,
 are available for the duration of the data collection period (1932 - 1945)
 from the Miles City airport, Wiley Field, 9 km from the study site.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Population models: plot-based and individual-based
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Model selection.
 
\series default
We used the Deviance Information Criterion (DIC) to rank the statistical
 models for each vital rate (growth, survival, and recruitment/colonization).
 We first used DIC to select the random effects structure of the model.
 We started with a full model with all climate covariates, including within-year
 precipitation 
\begin_inset Formula $\times$
\end_inset

 temperature interactions, and a full random effects structure: a random
 year effect on the intercept, a random grazing treatment effect on the
 intercept, and a random year effect on the coefficient for size.
 We fit models with all possible combinations of random effects and selected
 the model with lowest DIC, which was the full random effects structure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We then moved to selecting among models with different climate effect combinatio
ns.
 Retaining the random effects structure from above, we fit models with all
 possible combinations of climate covariates and ranke them by DIC.
 For some species the best model according to DIC included climate covariates
 whose coefficients' 95% credible interval overlapped zero.
 In these cases we used the highest ranked model (lowest DIC) that included
 climate effects that did not overlap zero.
 If an interaction between precipiation and temperature was important (95%
 CIs that do not include zero), then we kept the individual effects even
 if the 95% CI did overlap zero.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Plot-based population model
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To model plant population dynamics at the plot level we use an individual-based
 modeling approach where we treat each plot as an individual.
 We seek to model the percent cover of a focal species in a plot based on
 regressions for changes, positive or negative, in plant percent cover (growth),
 survival, and colonization.
 The fundamental process is modeled as
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{eqnarray}
N_{t+1} & = & \begin{cases}
S_{t}\times G_{t} & \textrm{if }N_{t}>0\\
C_{t} & \textrm{if }N_{t}=0
\end{cases}\label{eq:ProcessModel}
\end{eqnarray}

\end_inset

where 
\shape italic
N
\begin_inset Formula $_{t+1}$
\end_inset

 
\shape default
is the percent cover of a focal plant species at time 
\shape italic
t
\shape default
+1, 
\shape italic
S
\shape default
 is estimated survival, 
\shape italic
G
\shape default
 is estimated growth, and 
\shape italic
C
\shape default
 is estimated colonization.
 Each of the components on the right-hand-side of equation 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:ProcessModel"

\end_inset

 are estimated as
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{eqnarray}
S_{t} & = & \frac{1}{1+e^{\left(\alpha_{0}+\alpha_{1}N_{t-1}+\alpha_{2}R_{t-1}+\alpha_{3}R_{t}+\alpha_{4}T_{t-1}+\alpha_{5}T_{t},\right)}},\label{eq:surv}\\
G_{t} & = & \beta_{0}+\beta_{1}N_{t-1}+\beta_{2}R_{t-1}+\beta_{3}R_{t}+\beta_{4}T_{t-1}+\beta_{5}T_{t},\label{eq:growth}\\
C_{t} & = & \frac{1}{1+e^{\left(\gamma_{0}+\gamma_{1}R_{t-1}+\gamma_{2}R_{t}+\gamma_{3}T_{t-1}+\gamma_{4}T_{t}\right)}},\label{eq:colonize}
\end{eqnarray}

\end_inset

where the Greek symbols (
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha,\beta,\gamma$
\end_inset

) are regression coefficients, 
\shape italic
t
\shape default
 indexes years, 
\shape italic
N
\shape default
 is percent cover of a focal plant species, 
\shape italic
R 
\shape default
is mean annual rainfall, and 
\shape italic
T
\shape default
 is mean spring temperature.
 To avoid notational clutter later on, we refer to equations 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:surv"

\end_inset

,
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:growth"

\end_inset

, and 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:colonize"

\end_inset

 as 
\begin_inset Formula $g_{S}(\boldsymbol{\alpha},\mathbf{N},\mathbf{R},\mathbf{T})$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $g_{G}(\boldsymbol{\beta},\mathbf{N},\mathbf{R},\mathbf{T})$
\end_inset

, and 
\begin_inset Formula $g_{C}(\boldsymbol{\gamma},\mathbf{R},\mathbf{T})$
\end_inset

, respectively, with bold symbols and letters representing vectors of the
 coefficients and predictors that compose the regressions.
 We estimate all unknown quantities using a hierarchical Bayesian approach
 with the posterior and joint distributions expressed as 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{eqnarray}
\textrm{Pr}\left(\boldsymbol{\alpha},\boldsymbol{\beta},\boldsymbol{\gamma},\sigma_{p}^{2},\sigma_{S}^{2},\sigma_{G}^{2},\sigma_{C}^{2},\sigma_{\alpha}^{2},\sigma_{\beta}^{2},\sigma_{\gamma}^{2}|\mathbf{y}\right) & \propto & \prod_{t\in\mathcal{M}}\textrm{normal}\left(y_{k,t}|N_{k,t},\sigma_{p}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{t=2}^{z}\textrm{lognormal}\left(N_{k,t}|\log\left(g\left(S_{k,t},G_{k,t},C_{k,t}\right)\right),\sigma_{p}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{k\in\mathcal{Q}}\textrm{beta}\left(S_{k,t}|g_{S}(\boldsymbol{\alpha_{k}},N_{k,t-1},R_{t-1},R_{t},T_{t-1},T_{t}),\sigma_{S}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \textrm{normal}\left(G_{k,t}|g_{G}(\boldsymbol{\beta_{k}},N_{k,t-1},R_{t-1},R_{t},T_{t-1},T_{t}),\sigma_{G}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{k\in\mathcal{W}}\textrm{beta}\left(C_{k,t}|g_{C}(\boldsymbol{\gamma_{k}},R_{t-1},R_{t},T_{t-1},T_{t}),\sigma_{C}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{k=1}^{n_{quad}}\textrm{normal}\left(\boldsymbol{\alpha_{k}}|\boldsymbol{\alpha},\boldsymbol{\sigma}_{\alpha}^{2}\right)\prod_{k=1}^{n_{quad}}\textrm{normal}\left(\boldsymbol{\beta_{k}}|\boldsymbol{\beta},\boldsymbol{\sigma}_{\beta}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{k=1}^{n_{quad}}\textrm{normal}\left(\boldsymbol{\gamma_{k}}|\boldsymbol{\gamma},\boldsymbol{\sigma}_{\gamma}^{2}\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{i=0}^{5}\textrm{normal}\left(\alpha_{i}|0,100\right)\textrm{normal}\left(\beta_{i}|0,100\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \prod_{i=0}^{4}\textrm{normal}\left(\gamma_{i}|0,100\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{p}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{S}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{G}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{C}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{\alpha}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{\beta}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\times\nonumber \\
 &  & \textrm{inverse gamma}\left(\sigma_{\gamma}^{2}|.01,.01\right)\label{eq:fullBayes}
\end{eqnarray}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Traditional population model: vital rates, individual-based model, and integral
 projection model
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
